1. Included in the WAPerceptionChallenge folder
2. Methodology:
My methodology for solving the coding challenge was to use a machine learning model to detect and locate the cones, and then draw the lines on the image based on the positions of the cones. I hadn't worked with OpenCV before but I knew it had many different kinds of object detection and classification models. I chose the Haar Cascade Classifier from OpenCV for this challenge. I also found a very useful video that guided me through the process: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XrCAvs9AePM&t=759s&ab_channel=LearnCodeByGaming. I found a cone dataset from this link: https://github.com/MarkDana/RealtimeConeDetection and tagged it so that I could train my model, which would represent the "positive" class of the dataset (pos.txt). I also found images without cones which would represent the "negative" class of the dataset (neg.txt). Using OpenCV's opencv_annotation.exe and opencv_createsamples.exe applications, I tagged cones in various images, and converted those tags into a vector file (pos24.vec). I then trained the model with the vector file and the negative class file as data using the opencv_traincascade.exe application and generated cascade\cascade.xml. I experimented with the number of stages and the number of positive and negative data instances to train the model with until my model was working well. I loaded it into my program and created detection rectangles around the cones in the original image. I then found the positions of these rectangles and using the Pillow library I drew lines connecting the frontmost and backmost cones on each side.
3. Originally I was trying to run the OpenCV exe files on MacOS using Wine and Winebottler but those weren't working for me so I had to use Bootcamp instead. I read that Wine is a very old software so it could have just been abandoned altogether. In addition, I tried using a Linear Regression model to draw the lines using the positions of the rectangles but couldn't figure out how to plot it on the image. Since there were two different lines to plot and a couple of false positive detections, the lines of best fit produced by the model weren't very good. Also, I wasn't sure how to extrapolate the lines beyond the cones.
4. Libraries Used:
OpenCV, Pillow - used for generating answer.png
Jupyter-lab - used during development of code step-by-step
Matplotlib - used during development of code step-by-step
SKLearn - used during attempt at using linear regression to draw lines
Numpy - used during attempt at using linear regression to draw lines
Code from @learncodebygaming on github to draw rectangles and create negative class file